I'd like to take a different approach in answering this. I think geographical location and higher availability of other drinks probably is a bigger reason that water is not consumed as much by people in certain regions, including Europe. I believe and many visitors have commented that children drink less water and more soda in USA.  This is primarily due to the fact that soda companies advertise a lot, making it more attractive. Secondly, SODA IS ATTRACTIVE, and according to a few medical experts it's even addictive (yes, caffeine is addictive to some extent).  . . Secondly the cold weather in upper northern hemisphere in general is more of a reason that ppl drink less water and more of other drinks.  For example if you are from a tropical country or from a very humid place, you would probably & naturally  be drinking more water rather than if you are from   a country like Austria, Switzerland, Denmark, Finland.. . Another reason is that people being less immune to impure water (like tap water) and being more dependent on bottled water makes the water less affordable and less available.  If you need to pay  extra or need to work harder to get the commodity, you may resort to cheaper commodity or a near by commodity.. . Another reason I also feel is the commute using Cars rather than walking or cycling.  If you walk more to commute (like walk to train stations, walk a few blocks to get groceries, etc.) then you are more likely to drink water when compared to driving to every place you go and exert yourself much less.  In many other countries people walk, walk and walk for several small things.. . Lack of education and awareness is also a reason for not consuming enough water. Not many people (except for few educated ones)know that 80% of our body is water.  Even if they knew, ppl forget that fact easily and resort to "other drinks".. . There are simply several reasons or combination of reasons for not consuming enough water by the people in general.. . Finally, after having said all this,. Beer Happens!